Caffeine is not only enjoyed by humans, but there are some Houseplants that Love Coffee too! Surprised? Check the list below.
Coffee grounds are great for nitrogen-loving plants. Using it in the soil helps in reducing plant diseases and pests while improving water retention. Let’s have a look at the Houseplants That Love Coffee.

Check out our article on using coffee grounds for gardening here
How to Use Coffee for Houseplants
Coffee grounds are a good source of nitrogen, encourage the growth of the beneficial microorganisms in the soil, and help plants that prefer acidic growing medium. You can use it in the following ways:

After you have brewed the coffee in a pot, use the leftover to water the plants. Using one cup per week for plants like impatiens, orchids, dieffenbachia, and African violets is a good way to help them grow well.
The coffee grounds can also be used as an organic matter. Mix 1 part of coffee ground to 3 parts of garden soil or potting mix for best results.
Adding coffee grounds to your compost bin is also recommended. Apart from that, you can always side-dress your plants with used coffee grounds.
Houseplants that Love Coffee
1. Christmas Cactus
Houseplants That Love Coffee

Botanical Name: Schlumbergera bridgesii

Treat your Christmas cactus twice a week with coffee-enriched water. Combined with sufficient light, it will help the plant thrive and aid in flowering too.

Here’s all you need to know on how to make a Christmas cactus bloom
2. Pothos

Botanical Name: Epipremnum aureum

Pothos like occasional watering with black coffee. You can also add coffee grounds into the potting soil while transplanting and watch the plant thrive in the long term.


Check out our article on growing pothos indoors here
3. Philodendron
Houseplants That Love Coffee 2

Botanical Name: Philodendron

This beautiful houseplant offers a wide range of varieties to grow indoors.  Add coffee grounds in the potting mix or simply sprinkle a solution of coffee and water for lush growth.

Here’s all you need to know about growing Philodendron
4. African Violet

Botanical Name: Saintpaulia spp

This beautiful houseplant is an excellent choice to bring a pop of color indoors. It is a huge fan of nitrogen and acid, so you can use a solution of coffee and water for best growth.


Check out our article on growing African Violets here
5. Cyclamen
Houseplants That Love Coffee 3
Botanical Name: Cyclamen persicum

These attractive houseplant flowers from December till April. You can aid in dense growth by watering the cyclamen frequently in the flowering season with water and coffee solution.


6. Miniature Roses


Botanical Name: Rosa

Most rose species, including miniature roses, like nitrogen and acidic soil, and coffee grounds provide that, which encourages flowering. Alternatively, you can also use half a cup of black coffee per plant, once in 2-3 weeks.

Here’s all the information you need on making roses bloom
7. Jade Plant


Botanical Name: Crassula ovata

Jade plants love coffee as they like nitrogen. It helps them to stay dark in color and encourages thick stem growth. Though keep in mind that jade plants dislike overwatering.
